



# Identity & access management


## Authentication Methods


## Security Token Service 
- provides short-term authorization that IAM roles utilize.
Console password:
- sign in to interactive sessions such as the AWS Management Console.
- allow selected IAM users to change their passwords by disabling the option for all users and using an IAM policy to grant permissions for the selected users.
- The password policy
  - at least one numerical character from 0 to 9. 
  - contain between 6 to 128 characters
Access Keys:
- A combination of an access key ID and a secret access key.
  - You can assign two active access keys to a user at a time.
- can be used to make programmatic calls to AWS when using the API in program code or at a command prompt when using the AWS CLI or the AWS PowerShell tools.
  - aws configure is the command needed to allow access key configuration.
- can create, modify, view or rotate access keys.
  - When created IAM returns the access key ID and secret access key.
  - The secret access is returned only at creation time and if lost a new key must be created.
- Ensure access keys and secret access keys are stored securely.
- Users can be given access to change their own keys through IAM policy (not from the console).
- disable a user’s access key which prevents it from being used for API calls.
- Access keys are updated immediately, once the associated IAM User's access is updated.
- Once the secret key has been lost, generating new access keys for the application is necessary.
- configuring access key entry to AWS account.
  - Region name
  - Output format
  - Installation of the AWS CLI Interface
  - Access key ID
  - Secret access key
- max limit of access keys an IAM User may possess at a time: 2
  - IAM users are allowed two sets of access keys.
Server certificates:
- SSL/TLS certificates that you can use to authenticate with some AWS services.
- use the AWS Certificate Manager (ACM) to provision, manage and deploy server certificates.
  - Use IAM only when you must support HTTPS connections in a region that is not supported by ACM.
The following diagram shows the different methods of authentication available with IAM:
￼


Q: AWS IoT Core 
- a managed cloud service
- lets connected devices easily and securely interact with cloud applications and other devices. 
- can support billions of devices and trillions of messages,
- can process and route those messages to AWS endpoints and to other devices reliably and securely.


Q: AWS Server Migration Service (SMS)
- an agentless service
- easier and faster to migrate thousands of on-premises workloads to AWS.




￼







