
# 5.4. Object Oriented Concepts

[toc]


# 5.4.1. User-defined Classes

Python provides a way to define `new functions` in programs, it also provides a way to `define new classes of objects`.


### 5.4.2. Instances

```py
import Turtles

wn = turtle.Screen()  
alex = turtle.Turtle()  
```

Given a `class` like `Turtle` or `Screen`

we create a new `instance` with a syntax `Turtle()`.
- The Python interpreter figures out that `Turtle` is a `class` rather than a function, and so it creates a new instance of the class and returns it.
- Since the Turtle class was defined in a separate module, (confusingly, also named turtle), we had to refer to the class as `turtle.Turtle`.
- Thus, use `turtle.Turtle()` to make a new turtle. use `turtle.Screen()` to make a new window for turtles to paint in.

### 5.4.3. Attributes
Each instance can have `attributes` or `instance variables`.
- use `assignment statements =`, to assign values to them.
- we can assign values to an attribute, and look up those attributes.

```py
For example, the following code would print out 1100.

alex.price = 500
tess.price = 600
print(alex.price + tess.price)
```

### 5.4.4. Methods
`Classes` have associated `methods`, special kind of function.

`Methods` return `values`, just as `functions` do.
- However, none of the methods of the `Turtle class` return values the way the `len` function does.


> `alex.forward(50)`
> - The interpreter first looks up `alex`
> - finds `alex` is an **instance** of the **class** `Turtle`.
> - Then it looks up the **attribute** `forward`
> - finds that it is a `method`.
> - Since there is a left parenthesis directly following, the interpreter invokes the method, passing 50 as a **parameter**.

The only difference between a method invocation and other function calls is that the `object instance` itself is also passed as a parameter. Thus `alex.forward(50)` moves `alex`, while `tess.forward(50)` moves `tess`.














.
